WELCOME, ONE AND ALL, TO "THE
LATE SHOW."
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR BEING
HERE.
I'M YOUR HOST, STEPHEN COLBERT.
SINCE-- SINCE DONALD TRUMP WAS
ELECTED PRESIDENT, I'VE REMINDED
MYSELF TO NEVER STOP BEING
SHOCKED.
BUT IT'S HARD,  YOU KNOW.
IT'S LIKE MY BRAIN HAS DEVELOPED
A THICK CALLOUS, LIKE A
BALLERINA'S TOES.
(  LAUGHTER  )
IT'S ALL JUST LIKE BONES AND
LEGHTDRY SKIN UP THERE NOW.
BUT TODAY, I HAVE TO SAY, I AM
SHOCKED ANEW,
BECAUSE TRUMP MET WITH INCOMING
SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE, NANCY
PELOSI, AND SENATE MINORITY
LEADER, CHUCK SCHUMER, IN THE
MOST SERIOUS ROOM IN AMERICA,
THE OVAL OFFICE.
AND THEIR MEETING LOOKED LIKE
THIS:
>> Stephen: I'M SORRY.
I DON'T KNOW HOW THAT HAPPENED.
THAT WAS SOME MIX-UP IN THE
CONTROL ROOM THERE.
THAT WAS-- THAT WAS CATS BOXING,
I THINK.
( LAUGHTER )
BUT I'LL SAY THIS:  THAT WAS ONE
STEP UP FROM WHAT ACTUALLY
HAPPENED TODAY.
>> THE FACT IS, YOU DO NOT HAVE
THE VOTES IN THE HOUSE.
>> NANCY, I DO!
AND WE NEED BORDER SECURITY.
>> LET'S TAKE A VOTE AND FIND
OUT!
>> NANCY!
NANCY!
IF IT'S NOT GOOD BORDER
SECURITY, I WON'T TAKE IT.
>> IT IS VERY GOOD BORDER
SECURITY.
>> AND IF IT'S NOT GOOD BORDER
SECURITY, I WON'T TAKE IT!
>> AND YOU WANT TO SHUT IT DOWN.
YOU KEEP TALKING ABOUT IT.
>> THE LAST TIME, CHUCK, YOU
SHUT IT DOWN.
>> NO, NO NO!
OKAY, FAIR ENOUGH.
WE DISAGREE.
>> Stephen: STOP FIGHTING,
GRANDMA, GRANDPA, AND WEIRD
GRANDPA!
(  LAUGHTER  )
NOW, THE BONE OF CONTENTION WAS
FOR THE ENTIRE ARGUMENT TODAY
WAS TRUMP'S BORDER WALL.
THE PRESIDENT'S BEEN THREATENING
A GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN OVER
FUNDING IT, AND PELOSI HAD HER
MESSAGING READY:
>> I THINK THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
RECOGNIZE THAT WE MUST KEEP
GOVERNMENT OPEN, THAT A SHUTDOWN
IS NOT WORTH ANYTHING, AND THAT
YOU SHOULD NOT HAVE A TRUMP
SHUTDOWN.
YOU'LL HAVE--
>> A WHAT?
DID YOU SAY TRUMP?
>> Stephen: (AS TRUMP)
"WHAT?
I'M SORRY WHAT?
DID YOU SAY 'TRUMP'?"
HE'S LIKE ALEXA:  HE ONLY WAKES
UP WHEN HE HEARS HIS NAME.
(  LAUGHTER  )
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
"I'M ORDERING YOU 36 ROLLS OF
TOILET PAPER RIGHT NOW."
AND THE SPARRING WENT ON.
>> THE ONE THING I THINK WE CAN
AGREE ON IS WE SHOULDN'T SHUT
DOWN THE GOVERNMENT OVER A
DISPUTE.
AND YOU WANT TO SHUT IT DOWN.
YOU KEEP TALKING ABOUT IT--
>> THE LAST TIME, CHUCK, YOU
SHUT IT DOWN.
>> NO, NO, NO.
>> AND THEN YOU OPENED IT UP
VERY QUICKLY-- I DON'T WANT TO
DO WHAT YOU DID--
>> 20 TIMES.
20 TIMES.
20 TIMES YOU HAVE CALLED FOR, "I
WILL SHUT DOWN THE GOVERNMENT IF
I DON'T GET MY WALL."
NONE OF US HAVE SAID IT--
>> YOU WANT TO KNOW SOMETHING
>> YOU SAID IT.
>> OKAY, YOU WANT TO PUT IT ON
MY--
>> YOU SAID IT.
YOU SAID IT.
>> I'LL TAKE IT.
I'LL TAKE IT.
>> OKAY.
>> YOU KNOW WHAT I'LL SAY?
YES, IF WE DON'T GET WHAT WE
WANT ONE WAY OR THE OTHER,
WHETHER IT'S THROUGH YOU,
THROUGH A MILITARY, THROUGH
ANYTHING THAT YOU WANT TO CALL,
I WILL SHUT DOWN THE GOVERNMENT.
>> Stephen: TO BE CLEAR, HE'S
OFFERING TO TAKE ALL THE BLAME
FOR THE THING YOU ALWAYS BLAME
THE OTHER SIDE FOR?
(AS TRUMP)
"OKAY, I WILL TAKE ALL THE BLAME
FOR THE SHUTDOWN, BUT FIRST, LET
ME JUST SPRAY PAINT MY INITIALS
ON THE BOW OF THE S.S.
'REPUBLICAN PARTY' BEFORE I
DRIVE IT OVER A WATERFALL."
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
(  LAUGHTER  )
YOU'LL NOTICE THE WHOLE TIME
TRUMP WAS BRAGGING ABOUT HIS
SHUTDOWN, CHUCK SCHUMER DID HIS
BEST NOT TO MAKE EYE CONTACT
WITH TRUMP, LIKE YOU DO WITH A
DRUNK GUY SCREAMING ON THE
SUBWAY.
JUST EYES FORWARD, AND LET THEM
RANT ABOUT THE MEXICANS UNTIL
YOU CAN TRANSFER AT 59th STREET,
AND DON'T ASK WHERE ALL THIS
URINE IS COMING FROM.
IT'S COMING FROM RUSSIA.
NOW TRUMP-- TRUMP--
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
♪ ♪ ♪
THERE YOU GO.
TRUMP INSISTED THAT HE DIDN'T
EVEN NEED THE DEMOCRATS ON BOARD
TO FUND HIS WALL, BUT NANCY
PELOSI CALLED HIS BLUFF.
>> THERE ARE NO VOTES IN THE
HOUSE, A MAJORITY OF VOTES FOR A
WALL, NO MATTER WHERE YOU STAND.
>> THAT'S EXACTLY RIGHT.
>> IF I NEEDED THE VOTES FOR THE
WALL IN THE HOUSE, I WOULD HAVE
THEM IN ONE SESSION.
>> WELL, THEN, GO DO IT.
GO DO IT.
>> IT DOESN'T HELP FOR ME TO
TAKE A VOTE IN THE HOUSE, WHERE
I WILL WIN EASILY WITH THE
REPUBLICANS.
>> YOU WILL NOT WIN.
(  LAUGHTER  )
>> Stephen: WELL, NOW WE KNOW
WHAT IT'S LIKE TO PLAY POKER
WITH DONALD TRUMP.
(AS TRUMP)
"LOOK, I HAVE A FULL HOUSE, AND
I CAN PLAY IT AT ANY TIME.
I COULD BEAT ALL OF YOU IN ONE
SECOND, IF I FELT LIKE IT.
ANYWAY, I'M BLUFFING.
HERE'S ALL MY MONEY.
WHO WILL BUY ME A SANDWICH
BECAUSE I HAVE... I... I... I ♪
AS THE ARGUMENT ESCALATED, THE
DEMOCRATIC LEADERS KEPT URGING
TRUMP TO TAKE THE COERSATION
PRIVATE.
>> WE ARE HERE TO HAVE A
CONVERSATION IN A CAREFUL WAY,
SO I DON'T THINK WE SHOULD HAVE
A DEBATE IN FRONT OF THE PRESS
ON THIS.
>> LET'S DEBATE-- LET'S DEBATE
IN PRIVATE, OKAY.
LET'S DEBATE IN PRIVATE.
>> WE CAME IN HERE IN GOOD
FAITH, AND WE'RE ENTERING INTO
THIS KIND OF DISCUSSION IN THE
PUBLIC VIEW.
>> BUT, IT'S NOT BAD, NANCY.
>> NO--
>> IT'S CALLED TRANSPARENCY.
>> Stephen: (AS TRUMP)
"CHUCK, NANCY, ANYTHING YOU HAVE
TO SAY TO ME, YOU CAN SAY IN
FRONT OF MY GOOD FRIENDS, THE
ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE.
OKAY.
JUST..."
( APPLAUSE )
ANY CHILD OF DIVORCE HAS SEEN
THIS CONVERSATION BEFORE.
"PLEASE, CAN WE NOT TALK ABOUT
THIS OVER DINNER?"
"WHY NOT?
THE KIDS DESERVE TO KNOW THE
REASON THEY WON'T BE GOING TO
DISNEY WORLD IS BECAUSE THEIR
JOY-KILL MOTHER THINKS THAT
MONEY SHOULD GO TO SOMEBODY'S
BRACES.
IT'S CALLED TRANSPARENCY,
MARGARET!"
(  LAUGHTER  )
( APPLAUSE )
AND-- AND--
AND PELOSI EXPLAINED WHY IT WAS
SO IMPORTANT TO KEEP THE
CONVERSATION PRIVATE.
>> LET US HAVE A CONVERSATION
WHERE WE DON'T HAVE TO
CONTRADICT IN PUBLIC THE
STATISTICS THAT YOU PUT FORTH.
>> Stephen: NO!
EXACTLY WRONG!
CONTRADICT HIM IN PUBLIC!
THIS IS FUN!
ASK HIM-- ASK HIM-- ASK HIM TO
NAME SEVEN STATE CAPINALS!
NO, ASK HIM TO NAME SIEVE
STATES!
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
"NORTH DAKOTA."
AFTER THE MEETING, PELOSI SPOKE
TO HER FELLOW HOUSE DEMOCRATS
AND SHE HAD AN INTERESTING WAY
TO DESCRIBE WHAT IT'S LIKE TO
NEGOTIATE WITH TRUMP:
"IT GOES TO SHOW YOU: YOU GET
INTO A TINKLE CONTEST WITH A
SKUNK, YOU GET TINKLE ALL OVER
YOU."
(  LAUGHTER  )
NOT TO QUESTION YOUR FOLKSY
METAPHOR, MADAM, BUT IF YOU GET
IN A TINKLE CONTEST WITH
ANYTHING, YOU GET TINKLE ALL
OVER YOU.
(  LAUGHTER  )
NO ONE WINS.
THAT'S WHY THEY BANNED IT FROM
THE OLYMPICS.
(  LAUGHTER  )
THEN PELOSI PSYCHOANALYZED
TRUMP, SAYING, "THIS WALL THING,
IT'S LIKE A MANHOOD THING WITH
HIM-- AS IF MANHOOD CAN BE
ASSOCIATED WITH HIM."
>> Audience: OOOOOH!
>> Stephen: OH!
OH!
>> Jon: OH!
>> Stephen: WOW!
>> Stephen: OH, THAT'S COLD!
SO THE WALL IS A METAPHOR FOR
HIS MANHOOD.
NO WONDER HE'S HAVING TROUBLE
ERECTING IT.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
STILL, THAT'S PRETTY-- THAT'S
PRETTY COLD FROM NANCY PELOSI,
YOU KNOW.
IT'S LIKE SHE ALWAYS SAYS, "WHEN
THEY GO LOW, WE PUNCH THEM RIGHT
IN THE JUNK."
BOOM!
TRUMP ALSO SPOKE ABOUT THE
MEETING AND SAID THAT ALL THAT
SHOCKING ANTAGONISM THEY HAD
BETWEEN THEM WAS ACTUALLY THEM
JUST PALLING AROUND.
>> WELL, BELIEVE IT OR NOT, I
THINK IT WAS A FRIENDLY MEETING.
YOU SAW THE BEGINNINGS OF IT,
BUT IT WORKED OUT TO BE PRETTY
GOOD.
I LIKED THEM FOR A LONG PERIOD
OF TIME, AND I RESPECT THEM
BOTH.
>> Stephen: WE JUST LEARNED
TRUMP'S DEFINITION OF
FRIENDSHIP.
"FRIENDSHIP: NOUN: PUBLIC
ARGUMENT WITH THOSE WHO OPPOSE
EVERYTHING YOU STAND FOR."
AND HERE'S THE THING--
FRIENDSHIP.
HERE'S THE THING ABOUT TRUMP
THREATENING TO SHUT DOWN THE
GOVERNMENT OVER HIS WALL: THIS
MORNING HE TBEETED A LONG TWEET
IN WHICH HE SAID, "WE ALREADY DO
HAVE A WALL."
"DESPITE THE LARGE CARAVANS THAT
WERE FORMING AND HEADING TO OUR
COUNTRY, PEOPLE HAVE NOT BEEN
ABLE TO GET THROUGH OUR
NEWLY BUILT WALLS, MAKESHIFT
WALLS, AND FENCES, OR BORDER
PATROL OFFICERS AND MILITARY.
THEY ARE NOW STAYING IN MEXICO,
OR GOING BACK TO THEIR ORIGINAL
COUNTRIES, DOT, DOT, DOT, DOT,
DOT, DOT, DOT.
DOT, DOT, DOT, DOT, DOT, ICE,
BORDER PATROL, AND OUR MILITARY
HAVE DONE A FANTASTIC JOB OF
SECURING OUR SOUTHERN BORDER."
TRUMP'S PROBLEM IS THAT HE HAS
TO SAY WE BUILT THE WALL TO
SATISFY THE PEOPLE WHO VOTED FOR
HIM IN 2016, BUT HE ALSO HAS TO
SAY THAT WE NEED TO BUILD THE
WALL TO GET PEOPLE TO VOTE FOR
HIM IN 2020.
HE NEEDS A WALL THAT BOTH DOES
AND DOESN'T EXIST.
I JUST HOPE HE HAS GOOD MIME
SKILLS.
(AS TRUMP)
"OH, HERE IT IS, HERE IT IS.
BIG HARD WALL.
THERE IT IS RIGHT THERE.
RIGHT THERE.
HERE WE GO.
OH, WAIT.
THERE'S A LADDER.
HERE, I'LL GO UP THE WALL ON THE
LADDER.
UH-OH!
IT'S SO WINDY!
IT'S SO WINDY."
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
(  LAUGHTER  )